# Prediction model for the PGA Tour - A Bayesian method

## Introduction

Golf is a sport played by millions of people around the world. It is a sport circled around competing with yourself to get better every time you play and one needs a very strong mental mindset to be able to succeed. The goal of golf is to put a small golf ball into a hole in as few strokes as possible. A round of golf is traditionally eighteen holes and a professional tournament of golf traditionally consists of four rounds that are played from Thursday thru Sunday. The PGA Tour (Professional Golfers Association) is the largest stage for competitive golf in the world, where elite golfers compete with each other to become the best in the world. Almost every weekend, there is a tournament that takes place on a course somewhere in the world, most often in the United States. In the tournaments, around 120 players bring their best in trying to come out on top.

There are extremely many factors that make a tournament winner, some of the most important are how the course fits the golfer and the player’s physical and mental form. In this project, we aim to model golfer’s performance and determine winners and top players in tournaments. More specifically, what is the probability that a given player is the winner of a given tournament? What is the probability that he will place in the top 10, top 25, and what is the probability that is cut out of the tournament after two days (misses the cut)? To answer these questions, we will use a hierarchical linear model based on the player.
